# Fortnight 1 - Languages & Perspectives
This fortnight provides the conceptual and historical grounding for the program and a brief introduction to the need for applied cybernetics with school leaders.  We continue the exploration of students’ backgrounds, experiences and orientations that influence the languages and perspectives they employ. This provides a basis for understanding and respecting the different knowledges in the cohort and those that will be brought into the program through staff and external partners and resources. We begin to interrogate how this complexity and diversity may be effectively navigated. A key concept reflected on linked to the program overview in orientation is ‘productive discomfort’ and how to manage the ambiguity that arises in multiple languages and different meanings people attach to the same objects or concepts based on their own perspectives. Students will also explore what influences these perspectives and look at the importance of ‘contexts' and the categories or elements that are part of these. They will also commence their journey on the concepts of learning and knowledge, and the role that framing questions can play in processes of learning. Different types and roles of questions are explored that through the term students are encouraged to practice in class and through assessments. And students look at physical perspectives and framing through an introduction to photography. 

In this fortnight, students are also introduced to three of the four assessments for their semester and provided with scaffolded support in the form of workshops to understand what is required and time to begin explorations and work together.

This includes a workshop on the role of self-reflexivity and reflective writing as an important cybernetic process and research method, which is employed to accelerate learning and sense-making to support greater self-awareness and purposeful action in the future.

Students are given time in groups for their cybernetic and cyber-physical stories assessment to explore each other's viewpoints, values and interest areas using two different prompts as starting points for exploration. This is the beginning of learning about the importance of ‘multi-focal’ perspectives in cybernetics and how to hold these in creative tension for what might feel like an uncomfortable amount of time before attempting to converge and choose directions for the joint project, including their focal CPS.

Finally, students are introduced to how resources will be approached throughout the program and how students in pairs or small groups will be responsible for organizing and facilitating resources sessions for their fellow students throughout the year. The first example session is run by convenors and demonstrates three brief ‘ways in' to the set of resources across both the ‘Build' and ‘Questions' courses for the fortnight. These ‘ways in’ focus on analytics to understand languages and perspectives including graphical overviews of content including word-cloud analysis to look at dominant language and vocabularies, looking at actors present or represented in the resource including their histories and how they communicate, and finally the relationships between these actors, particularly those who developed the resource and the content within it. Each group in future weeks is expected to develop or employ analytics linked to their own fortnight's theme for exploring their resources and adding their own perspectives in relation to it.

# Fortnight 2 - Purposeful Composition
The orientation to the program is finalised this fortnight with an introduction to Applied Cybernetics as a discipline for imagining, designing and building safe, responsible and sustainable AI-enabled cyber-physical systems. This includes what elements compose these systems and how we need to ‘think beyond AI' to the interwoven societal, environmental and technological systems that are being transformed. We also explore how looking back to past technologies embedded in systems that transformed the world, can be used in order to gain glimpses into the complex systems we might create in the future. As part of this fortnight, students will be exposed to and apply a number of methods for purposefully composing narratives and systems. These methods focus on lateral thinking and creative practice that opens new ways of critically doing and thinking about the futures, pasts and presents of complex systems. This includes science fiction prototyping workshop applied to their chosen group CPS, and a collective making workshop on speculative histories. Students will also explore representations of technological systems and futures in popular media and gain an appreciation for the values and interests embedded in these and what might be missing and in need of further exploration.

# Fortnight 3 - Cybernetics & Cyber-Physical Systems
In this fortnight students will begin to explore key cybernetics and systems concepts including feedback, communication, control and self-organisation. These are first introduced at the program level through embodied collective experiences of creating feedback loops and systems that deploy these. We then explore a variety of origin stories of cybernetics and cyber-physical systems from around the world and as applied to a variety of domains in order to understand the diversity and plurality of approaches and evolutions of Cybernetics, including the differences and similarities across a range of cultural, disciplinary and sector-based interpretations. 

Two important cybernetics and systems concepts of boundaries and scales are introduced through workshops and case applications this fortnight. This includes two analytics for exploring CPS: boundary critique using critical systems heuristics; and multi-level/multi-scalar and interaction mapping. 

Students complete the fortnight with their group presentation on pasts, presents and futures of their chosen CPS.

# Fortnight 4 - Sensing & Acting
Following on from Term 1 and multi-focal perspectives on Cybernetics and CPS, this term we dig deeper into aspects of these systems and methods for analysing these. This fortnight focuses on a variety of forms of sensing and acting supporting being, knowing and doing in the world.

It starts with an exploration of sensing and senses, acting and agency, and the values and ethics that shape these. Students are given time to consider and embody semiotics (non-verbal communication forms) as one example to reflect upon.

Students then explore sensing and acting through the case example of the Sensorium and interactively develop their own equivalent as a smart building or city, designed purposefully with particular types of control and communication media in mind. Materiality and environments in relation to these smart places will continue to be explored including through an introduction to actor-network theory and Indigenous ways of knowing through cultural metaphors. Sensing and acting, through interactions of humans and technologies is then further explored through concepts and examples of embodiment with students designing and interrogating a wearable technology.

Fortnight 5 - Data & Networking
This fortnight starts with an embodied collective experience of data classification, and sharing across a network, including basic development of protocols to facilitate this sharing. A set of questions are provided to enable staff and students to explore their data stories, and to understand their previous experiences with and perspectives on data. In the second part of the fortnight, students then explore networks from a number of perspectives including etymology, system definition and graph theory. Different types of network mapping are explored with students having the opportunity to apply these to their group CPS projects.

# Fortnight 6 - A&L

This fortnight starts with students developing a practical appreciation of key algorithms and processes used in computing including memory and retrieval of information from storage so it can be checked and acted on. The history and common types of algorithms are presented including those underlying most machine learning models. In comparison to models and means of learning in humans and the environment, students also gain an appreciation of what is missing from current approaches to machine learning. 


